README.md, before:

## Table of Contents

- [My Tech Stack](#my-tech-stack)
- [Running in Development](#running-in-development)
- [Scripts](#scripts)
- [DevOps](#devops)

---

### NKV2

**Front end:**

- React
- Tailwind CSS
- Vite

**Back end:**

- Go
- Gin
- MongoDB

**DevOps**

- Bash
- Docker
- Kubernetes
- Tilt (K8s for local dev)
- Hosting via GCP (Google Cloud Platform with: Cloud - Triggers -> Build -> Run)

---

### Running in Development

For development environment we use a Tiltfile and Minikube for hosting of our K8s.

To start our cluster, make sure you meet the following prerequisites:

### Prerequisites:

| Tool                                                       | Purpose                                     | Check version              |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/) or Docker Engine | Container runtime used by Minikube and Tilt | `docker --version`         |
| [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/)             | Local single-node Kubernetes cluster        | `minikube version`         |
| [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)         | Kubernetes CLI                              | `kubectl version --client` |
| [Tilt](https://docs.tilt.dev/install.html)                 | Local dev orchestrator                      | `tilt version`             |

---

Before starting stuff, check current docker context & other nice commands:

```bash
docker context ls # To check
docker context use default # To switch (I prefer native dockerd (/run/docker.sock))
docker info # check the stuff you running
```

I recommend setting the following resources in your minikube VM:

```bash
minikube config set driver docker
minikube config set cpus 2
minikube config set memory 4096
minikube config set disk-size 20g
minikube start
```

Then enable ingress addons in minikube:

```bash
minikube addons enable ingress
```

We need to have the env file created so that we can run the program:

To create a **Secret** (dev only, and path added to .gitignore):

(https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configmap-secret/managing-secret-using-kubectl/)

```bash
kubectl create secret generic blog-service-env \
  --from-env-file=infra/development/secrets/blog-service.env
```

To update later, just delete and create it again:

```bash
kubectl delete secret blog-service-env
```

---

### Scripts

To get a clear snapshot of any project you are working on, use:

```bash
tree -I 'node_modules|.git|dist' -a -L 10
```

To update **ALL** dependencies in the project, cd inte **/scripts** folder and run:

```bash
./update-all.sh
```

## DevOps

### Handy DevOps commands for local dev:

From the **repo root**, simply run (and do not forget to have your minikube instance running):

```bash
tilt up
```

### Stopping / Cleaning Up

When you’re done and other minikube commands:

```bash
tilt down      # stops all Tilt resources
minikube stop  # shuts down the cluster (keeps data)
---
minikube config view # resources
minikube status
minikube profile list
minikube --help
```

or to nuke everything, use:

```bash
minikube delete --all --purge   # removes the cluster completely
```

but only when:

- Changed driver / core config (e.g. switched from Docker Desktop to native Docker)

- Changed CPU/memory/disk size in a way that requires fresh node

- The cluster is completely borked and not worth debugging

###

To recreate stale pods:

```bash
tilt down
kubectl get all
kubectl get pods
kubectl delete pod --all
tilt up
---
tilt logs -f
```

Commit message:

u readme, minikube config view added

README.md, after:

## Table of Contents

- [My Tech Stack](#my-tech-stack)
- [Running in Development](#running-in-development)
- [Scripts](#scripts)
- [DevOps](#devops)

---

### NKV2

**Front end:**

- React
- Tailwind CSS
- Vite

**Back end:**

- Go
- Gin
- MongoDB

**DevOps**

- Bash
- Docker
- Kubernetes
- Tilt (K8s for local dev)
- Hosting via GCP (Google Cloud Platform with: Cloud - Triggers -> Build -> Run)

---

### Running in Development

For development environment we use a Tiltfile and Minikube for hosting of our K8s.

To start our cluster, make sure you meet the following prerequisites:

### Prerequisites:

| Tool                                                       | Purpose                                     | Check version              |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/) or Docker Engine | Container runtime used by Minikube and Tilt | `docker --version`         |
| [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/)             | Local single-node Kubernetes cluster        | `minikube version`         |
| [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)         | Kubernetes CLI                              | `kubectl version --client` |
| [Tilt](https://docs.tilt.dev/install.html)                 | Local dev orchestrator                      | `tilt version`             |

---

Before starting stuff, check current docker context & other nice commands:

```bash
docker context ls # To check
docker context use default # To switch (I prefer native dockerd (/run/docker.sock))
docker info # check the stuff you running
```

I recommend setting the following resources in your minikube VM:

```bash
minikube config set driver docker
minikube config set cpus 2
minikube config set memory 4096
minikube config set disk-size 20g
minikube config view # To check the set resources
minikube start
```

Then enable ingress addons in minikube:

```bash
minikube addons enable ingress
```

We need to have the env file created so that we can run the program:

To create a **Secret** (dev only, and path added to .gitignore):

(https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configmap-secret/managing-secret-using-kubectl/)

```bash
kubectl create secret generic blog-service-env \
  --from-env-file=infra/development/secrets/blog-service.env
```

To update later, just delete and create it again:

```bash
kubectl delete secret blog-service-env
```

---

### Scripts

To get a clear snapshot of any project you are working on, use:

```bash
tree -I 'node_modules|.git|dist' -a -L 10
```

To update **ALL** dependencies in the project, cd inte **/scripts** folder and run:

```bash
./update-all.sh
```

## DevOps

### Handy DevOps commands for local dev:

From the **repo root**, simply run (and do not forget to have your minikube instance running):

```bash
tilt up
```

### Stopping / Cleaning Up

When you’re done and other minikube commands:

```bash
tilt down      # stops all Tilt resources
minikube stop  # shuts down the cluster (keeps data)
---
minikube config view # resources
minikube status
minikube profile list
minikube --help
```

or to nuke everything, use:

```bash
minikube delete --all --purge   # removes the cluster completely
```

but only when:

- Changed driver / core config (e.g. switched from Docker Desktop to native Docker)

- Changed CPU/memory/disk size in a way that requires fresh node

- The cluster is completely borked and not worth debugging

###

To recreate stale pods:

```bash
tilt down
kubectl get all
kubectl get pods
kubectl delete pod --all
tilt up
---
tilt logs -f
```
